[Term Entry] Python Pillow - Image: .alpha_composite() (#6343)
Codecademy/docs: content/pillow/concepts/image/terms/alpha-composite/alpha-composite.md

---
Title: '.alpha_composite()'

> Description: 'Merge two images by overlaying the foreground onto the background using their alpha (transparency) channels.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Merges two images by overlaying the foreground onto the background using their alpha (transparency) channels.'
```

Author: Hi @PragatiVerma18, I have made the required changes.
Let me know if you need more edits.

Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Computer Vision'
  - 'Images'
  - 'Pillow'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

In Pillow, the **`.alpha_composite()`** method _merges_ two images by overlaying the foreground onto the background using their _alpha_ (transparency) channels. It returns a new image with the composite result.

## Syntax

```py
Image.alpha_composite(background, foreground)
```

> - `background`: The background image should be in `RGBA` mode.
> - `foreground`: The foreground image should be in `RGBA` mode as well.

Reviewer: Specify the type of parameter in bracket like this -

```suggestion
- `background` (Image): The background image, which must be in `RGBA` mode..
- `foreground` (Image): The foreground image, which must also be in `RGBA` mode.
```

Author: Updated

> > **Note:** The `.alpha_composite()` method requires the `background` and the `foreground` parameter to have the same size `(width & height)`, otherwise, it won't work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The `.alpha_composite()` method requires both `background` and `foreground` parameters to have the same size `(width & height)`, otherwise, it won't work as expected.
```

Author: Updated.

## Example

> The following example demonstrates the use of the `.alpha_composite()` methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the use of the `.alpha_composite()` method:
```

Author: Updated.

```py
from PIL import Image

# Open background and foreground images
background = Image.open("background.png").convert("RGBA")
foreground = Image.open("foreground.png").convert("RGBA")

# Composite the images
result = Image.alpha_composite(background, foreground)

# Display and save the result
result.show()

> result.save('ship_on_ocean.png')

Reviewer: File names should use dashes (`-`) to separate words rather than spaces or underscores.

```suggestion
result.save('ship-on-ocean.png')
```

Author: Updated.

```

> Original Background Image:
> 
> ![Original Background Image](/media/ocean.png)
> 
> Original Foreground Image:
> 
> ![Original Foreground Image](/media/ship.png)

Reviewer: Include the original images above the code example and output after the code example.

Also, fix the image URLs and make the alt text more descriptive -

```suggestion
Original Background Image:

![Original background image is the image of an ocean with sun and clouds in the sky.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/ocean.png)

Original Foreground Image:

![Original foreground image is the image of a ship.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/ship.png)
```

Author: Updated.

Result Composite Image:

> ![Result Composite Image](/media/ship_on_ocean.png)

Reviewer: Fix the image URLs and make the alt text more descriptive -

```suggestion
![The resulting composite image shows the ship on the ocean.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/ship-on-ocean.png)
```

Reviewer: Update the image file name in media folder as well to use dashes instead of underscore in name.

Author: Updated.
